their wartime experiences as the high point in
their life. But if you're a professional soldier,
which I was, that's just going to work in the
morning. It's not pleasant. I remember the bad
things about it. People dying. A young sergeant
died in my arms one time. He got shot.
A couple of my boys got their legs blown off when
they stepped on mines. Had a crazy captain buddy of
mine shot his own thumb off. But, you remember
those things, but that's, that's not, you're who
you are before you go over there, and I certainly
was, and the war didn't change me. My experiences
in combat didn't change me. I think, like I said, I
think being a daddy had more impact on my life. I
learned more about and changed my outlook on life
more. when I had kids than the war did. Certainly
not my death, but I'm not going to be thinking about
Vietnam. I'm going to be thinking about my family.
What are your thoughts about the anti-war
protesters? Well, do you really want to know? I
really want to know. I think they're a bunch of
traitors. I think people who are honestly against
the war have a right to put forth their opinion, but
I think some of these people that call themselves
anti-war protesters, nothing more than
sympathizes with the enemy. They're the betrayal
of their own countrymen and the role they're
fighting. Jane Fonda's a classic. Is that why you
don't like her? I don't like her. I don't like her at
all. I don't like what she did, and I don't like what
she's doing today in 1988 to try to make amends for.
Because those boys over there said, how could she
do that? How could she get away with it? She goes to
North Vietnam and pats those guys on the head
telling them what a great job she's doing. You
know, they're doing. And those people and their
buddies are killing Americans.
Now, if she is so against America, why doesn't she
go to North Vietnam and become a North Vietnamese
film star now? She'd like a life in America. Yeah,
sure, she's making some bucks and she's selling
these little exercise tapes and all this crap. And
I understand her career ain't going too well. And
of course, those guys never forget somebody's
been betrayed them like that. And she's been kind
of a, she's the head of the temple, if you will.
She's the most visible of them all. But if this had
been World War II, that woman would have been tried
and convicted and probably sentenced to death for
what she did. That's terrible what she did. She
went over there and encouraged those people to
kill Americans. And she murdered herself. She
said it in the name of anti-war processing.
Bullshit. That wasn't anti-war processing. She
was going there and giving aid and encouragement
to the enemy. That's wrong. She shouldn't have
done that. You know, this is the day of no
absolutes, right? Everything is gray, but what
she did was definitely black. Very, very bad. She
shouldn't have done that. And what about the kids
and the college kids and even the grownups who just
protested in the streets? Well, you know, those
people got to write their voice, their opinion.
And...
Did you resent them because you gave part of your
life, a year of your life to the effort? No, I didn't
give... I don't resent... I didn't resent that
if...
I would have resented it if I was there against my
will, but I went there willingly. Because...
Would I resent that? Did I resent it?
I don't think I resent it. I was disappointed in the
fact that all of the American people didn't get
behind us while we went over there and put our meat
on the line.
And we're out there serving the country. That
means all the Americans. We're out there
performing our public service. kind of like a
fireman goes to a fire and some people are
protesting the fact that he's trying to put the
fire out. Can you relate to that? Okay, we were
going out there, we thought we were doing the right
thing. Our government told us we were doing the
right thing. The civilians that we worked for were
telling us that we were doing the right thing. Some
civilians said, you know, you're terrible and
they just didn't say what you, what you're doing is
wrong, they try to make us some kind of monsters,
you know, baby killers and all kinds of stuff. Do
you regret your involvement in the war? No.
Because at that time, I was participating in the
tribulations of my time. I think it was some great
philosopher once said, a man who does not
participate in the tribulations and triumphs of
his time can be accused of not having lived
period of time. I'm glad I was there and
participated in it. That was my job. That was what I
signed on to do. That was my responsibility. That
was my task, if you will. That was what I was doing
then. I was a soldier, and if I had not been there, I
would have missed it. I would have not been doing my
job. Okay. How do you feel about the draft dodgers,
or the people who, well, the people who went to
Canada, or the people who faked ailments or tried
to get out of it or tried to join the National Guard?
Well, you know, a lot of guys my age are lawyers and
dentists and doctors and have PhDs and stuff and if
there had been no war in Vietnam, most of those guys
would have never gone on to college. So, you say
people who avoided participating in a war Some
went to Canada, some went to graduate school. A
man's got to follow his own conscience. That's the
beauty of America. We let you get away with it. You
follow your own conscience. You do what your
conscience says, even in the face of censure by
your peer group. But I tell you what, I was in the 3rd
Battalion, 22nd Infantry for a few weeks, and we
got in a hell of a combat situation. I got to know a
Spec 5 medic And I stood there while they pinned the
Distinguished Service Cross on that guy's chest.
There's only one greater award that you can get and
that's the Medal of Honor. This guy had crawled out
in the fire in combat to rescue wounded GIs.
Medics do that all the time. He just did it well and
he did it a lot of times. So they gave him the
Distinguished Servant's Cross. Now that's a
pretty impressive award. What makes it even more
impressive is this guy was a conscientious
objector. He never carried a weapon. But yet he
still felt obligated to serve his country. What he
always told me was he could never be a
conscientious objector in any other country. I
wouldn't let him do it. but this country was so
great and so tolerant that they would let him. He
felt he owed that country something, but while he
couldn't in all good conscience bear arms against
another human being, he'd go out there and try to
save and help American lives and he did that. He
did. Now, I feel more strongly towards that
conscientious objector who at least went to help
his fellow American than the conscientious
objector who abandoned his country and went to
Canada and only came back when it was safe.
Do you understand the difference?
Did you ever feel that the war should end? Did you
ever feel that Americans should pull out? Yeah,
after we won it. the 70s, early 70s, in the
beginning of the 70s. Did you agree with the
pullout? Well, you're asking a professional
soldier to make political judgments. I couldn't
really do it. I left the Army. After Vietnam, it was
a drawdown. They didn't need as many people in the
Army. They had a million and a half people.
Congress mandated that the Army be reduced by 50%.
There's issues for them, so I was released. They
called it a reduction of 40. How did that make you
feel when they discharged you? That was more
traumatic than combat, I want to tell you, because
I had to reorient my whole life. I was 33 years old. I
had to find a new career. Did you feel resentment
then towards the Army? No, not towards the Army.
Like they had used you? No, no, not towards the Army
at all. No resentment towards the Army. I love the
Army today. I still love the Army. And every day I
still draw upon those things which I learned in the
Army. Every day. My resentment was towards the
Congress, because they mandated that the
military be reduced, and I lost my job. Just like a
layoff for General Motors.
But that's okay, because in the Army I learned to be
resilient and to adjust to change. So I took my GI
Bill, which I earned and I went to college and to law
school and then became a lawyer. How did you, when
America decided to pull out, did you feel that that
was right? Yeah, at that time it was because the
American people had lost the will to wage war.
Nope, that was a good decision. You know why? Why?
There's no point in engaging in a war Because the
American people are not committed to it. You're
just wasting lives. So, no, it's like gambling.
When you're on a losing streak, you don't throw
more money on the table. I hope they catch it back.
The American people don't want to fight a war no
more. Fine, let's pull the boys out of there and
bring them home. That's a good decision. Okay. How
did you feel? Did you watch on TV when the North
Vietnamese took over Saigon? Mm-hmm. How did you
feel then? I wasn't surprised. Were you sad? No.
They were filling a vacuum that we left. The South
Vietnamese had no ability to maintain a war like we
were.
Remember, the North Vietnamese never gained
control of that country until after the last
American left.
In our class, we heard about a man whose got
permission from both governments, the
Vietnamese government and the United States
government, and they're planning trips, like
groups of 12 veterans to go back to Vietnam to help
build the country back, build schools and
hospitals. Do you have any desire to do that? No.
Okay. Is there any reason? Take those 12 veterans
and send them to Appalachia. Send them to an Indian
reservation. We'll send them to a ghetto in South
Bronx.
I mean, take care of your own first and then go over
there and fool around with those people. I mean,
they're doing that for their own edification, not
for those people. If they're so concerned about
helping humanity, there's plenty of it right in
their own backyard and they go 10,000 miles away.
Do you have any desire to ever go back there? I just
did. You mean to Vietnam, though? I just did. You
went to Thailand. Yeah, that's right next door,
and I flew over Saigon. How did that feel? It was
interesting. No, no, I forgot how beautiful that
part of the world is. Really gorgeous.
You know, it's funny, when I already owned
Vietnam, even in the middle of firefights and
bombs going off and people dying, I would say to a
couple of buddies of mine, I'd say, you know, this
is one hell of a beautiful country. If there wasn't
a war going on, maybe, just maybe, this could be the
vacation capital of the world. Gorgeous beaches,
beautiful mountain ranges, and everything's so
green and so lush. And the Vietnamese people are
really sweet, darling people. Tough,
hardworking, very cultured, very proud of their
country, very nationalistic. Smart, creative,
charming, well-mannered, and that's both sides,
north and south. It's all the same culture. And
I've often thought that, but for all the screwing
around politicians, which is what that war was,
what a wonderful place it would be to visit. Yeah, I
think you once told me about a trip over there that
your school was going to participate in as a
sponsor. I'd rather wait until
maybe things are more settled, but yeah, it's a
beautiful country. It's gorgeous. Pearl of the
Orient. Back to something you just said. You said
that the people were sweet and kind. There was a
tendency for some soldiers to look at them as less
than human, as monsters, gooks, you called them,
you used to call them. Did you ever feel like that?
Oh, gooks, slopes, slant eyes, chinks, dinks, you
name it. Sure. Just like we call the Japanese Japs,
yellow bastards. The Germans will call Kraut or
the Bosch. You always characterize your enemy in
derogatory terms. But some of the best Americans
we have today are the Vietnamese who have come here
from Vietnam. So you have nothing against
Vietnamese people? Oh, no. They're wonderful
people. Even the North ones. They were fighting
for what they believed in, and they fought very
hard, and a very, very great sacrifice. And they
were soldiers. a hell of a good soldier to put up
with the enormous losses that they did. Because
every time they came up against us, they lost and
they got really hurt bad, but they kept on coming.
You respect that as a professional and another
professional. Tough people, good people.
Opportunists like Jane Fonda, you can never
really appreciate because they just take
advantage of the situation for their own ends. But
no, I have a, Tremendous respect for the
Vietnamese people. Wonderful people.
Want to qualify one point? Okay. Some of the best
Americans we have here today are the Vietnamese
Americans. Hardworking, diligent, loyal to
their family and to the community and to the
country. And they did that all after landing here
with nothing in their pockets and not even know how
to speak Latin.
What do you feel about the memorial that was put up
in Washington, D.C.? Good. By damn time. Do you
think... I'd like to go see it. Some people have
objections to it being black and so down to the
ground and kind of out of the way. That's the most
significant memorial in Washington, D.C. right
now. More people go to that than anything else. At
least that's what the people on the television
told me, isn't it? More people go there than go to
the Washington Monument. Jefferson Memorial,
Lincoln Memorial.
Yeah, that's appropriate then. You know why?
Because you can go up and touch the names of the men
that served there. It's not just a silly statue or
some piece of rock sticking out of the sky. It's
real. What that is, is the sacrifice of 50,000, the
ultimate sacrifice, 50,000 people who truly
loved their country and felt that what they were
doing was the correct thing and when an American
goes up there and sees it and touches it, then he's
finally paying tribute to the American men and
women
who served their country
well, affectionately, served their country with
love and affection for their country, who served
their country
honorably,
and gave the ultimate gift to their country and
their lives.
Yeah, that's a marvelous memorial.
I look forward to some time going there, maybe with
my grandchildren. And tipping my hat to my
comrades in arms who didn't have the chance to
continue their lives after their Vietnam
service.
You know, I find it really hilarious sometimes
when I talk to a list of civilians, people who have
never served in the military, never been in any
kind of a situation. I find it hilarious when they
talk about their broken shoelaces and the fact
that they just can't find the refrigerator that
works well or how they had a blowout on their car or
some other thing. The only true thing I ever saw in a
movie, Platoon, I think it was,
a soldier was heading home and he says, well, after
Vietnam, the rest of my life is going to be easy.
That's true. After participating in a war that had
very little popular support, not having your
sacrifices and the sacrifices of your peers
recognized, after almost getting killed half of
the time, the rest of your life seemed pretty
simple, uncomplicated.
And I think the vast majority of Vietnam veterans
who or women around this country today realize
that. And they're probably not getting a whole lot
of media attention, but those experiences and
those things which they learned about themselves
during that conflict are enriching their lives
right now. No war is ever without some benefit
somewhere along the line. Vietnam is still
different.
Any more questions? No, I don't think so. Thank
you. You're welcome.